---
title: COVID-19
date: 2020-05-09
description: Notes on a unique event
categories:
  - government
  - innovation
image: https://source.unsplash.com/collection/375719/2000x1322?a=.png
author_staff_member: Brendan
---
By March 10, it became clear that COVID-19 was a global economic wrecking ball. These are the things I believe the US Government could have done better, and what we should take away from such an event. 

First, I would like to say this is not a post degrading President Trump or the Executive branch. In fact, I hope this post avoids all politics to the extent that it can.

A state of quarantine was in the picture before it was the reality. The government could have easily outsourced theoretical quarantine measures as we watched South Korea deal with the virus. Contact tracing software was being developed at American universities at this time, but the government was uninvolved. Health institutions like Penn Medicine were preparing facilities for COVID-19 patients before the first US case.

Quarantine immediately suggests an eventual end of quarantine. The plan to reopen business with profound new health measures should have started with quarantine! Educating business owners throughout the country during quarantine could have saved countless dollars from economic performance.

We Are Lucky

The mortality rate is at least a factor of 10 lower than advertized by the World Health Organization, but arguably more contagious than reported.
The ability to react to a pandemic like this is necessary, and COVID-19 was a practice run.
